3.2.1.3.2.3. Domain Model

**Definisi**

1. “The Domain Model is your organized and structured knowledge of the problem.
The Domain Model should represent the vocabulary and key concepts of the
problem domain and it should identify the relationships among all of the entities
within the scope of the domain.” [1]
2. “A domain model is a visual representation of conceptual classes or real-world
objects in a domain of interest.” [2]
3. ‘A visual dictionary of abstractions.”[2]
4. “A Domain Model creates a web of interconnected objects, where each object
represents some meaningful individual, whether as large as a corporation or as
small as a single line on an order form.” [3]
5. “... a conceptual model of the domain that incorporates both behavior and data.”
[4]

We may even come up with our own mega definition:

"Domain model is a structured visual representation of interconnected concepts or real-world objects that incorporates vocabulary, key concepts, behavior, and relationships of all of its entities".

Sehingga, yang dimaksud dengan Pemodelan Domain atau Domain Modeling adalah a way to describe and model real world entities and the relationships between them, which collectively describe the problem domain space. Derived from an understanding of system-level requirements, identifying domain entities and their relationships provides an effective basis for understanding and helps practitioners design systems for maintainability, testability, and incremental development. Because there is often a gap between understanding the problem domain and the interpretation of requirements, domain modeling is a primary modeling area in Agile development at scale. Driven in part from object-oriented design approaches, domain modeling envisions the solution as a set of domain objects that collaborate to fulfill system-level scenarios.

Kata kunci dalam definisi domain model hakikatnya adalah visual. Pemahaman menjadi optimal jika konsep teoretis dapat divisualisasikan dengan cara yang dapat dicerna dengan mudah. Sebagian besar model domain diilustrasikan dengan class diagram yang dapat menunjukkan:

- domain objects or conceptual classes
- associations between conceptual classes
- attributes of conceptual classes

**Konstruksi**

Untuk membangun konstruksi sebuah domain model, 





**Referensi:**

1. Brown, Philip. (11.12.2014) What is the Domain Model in Domain Driven Design?
Culttt Retrieved from: https://goo.gl/cLDiTT
2. Larman, Craig. Applying UML and Patterns. An Introduction to Object-Oriented
Analysis and Design and the Unified Process. Second edition.
3. Fowler, Martin. (11.11.2009) Framework Design Guidelines: Domain Logic
Patterns. Retrieved from: https://goo.gl/mWsL5R
4. Wikipedia article on Domain Model.
5. Badgerati.(11.26.2009) What is Domain Modeling? Computer Science Source
Retrieved from: https://goo.gl/ti382L

